[general]
name=Linear Geoscience Mapping Tools
email=harry@lineargeoscience.au
author=Harry West
qgisMinimumVersion=3.40
description=A comprehensive geological mapping toolbox for the Linear Geoscience QField mapping template.
about=Combines multiple geoscience mapping scripts and a stereonet dock panel
    into a single plugin for professional geological mapping workflows.
    Features include:
    - Setup geopackage for QField mapping (scale, snapping, etc.)
    - Interactive stereonet analysis
    - Georeference and manage field photos
    - Merge and append mapping geopackages and external mapping data
    - Reproject template CRS
    - Structural domain classification
    - Magnetic declination calculation and adjustment
    - Mapsheet generation and print layouts
    - Recode and restyle symbology workflows
    - Map cleaning tools: spline reshape and digitising, polygon clipping,
      smart clip, overlap/sliver finders, geometry fixer, and
      lines/polygons-to-splines Processing algorithms
    External dependencies: requires the Python packages numpy, matplotlib and
    pandas. These are included in standard QGIS installations on Windows and
    macOS; on Linux they may need to be installed separately (e.g.
    python3-matplotlib and python3-pandas via your package manager, or pip in
    the QGIS Python environment). If matplotlib or pandas is missing, the
    plugin still loads and the stereonet and symbology tools show an
    installation hint instead.
    Bundled libraries: mplstereonet v0.6.3 (stereonet plotting by Joe Kington),
    geomag v0.9.2015 (magnetic declination by Christopher Weiss), fuzzywuzzy
    (fuzzy string matching), and WMM2025 magnetic model data (NOAA/NGA).
    All dependencies are MIT-licensed or public domain and bundled with the plugin.
    Map cleaning tools are based on the Spline Plugin by Radim Blazek and
    Polygon Clipper by Giuseppe De Marco (GPL).
    See THIRD_PARTY_LICENSES files for complete attribution and license details.
version=3.4
tracker=https://github.com/LinearGeoscience/LinearGeoscienceMappingTools/issues
repository=https://github.com/LinearGeoscience/LinearGeoscienceMappingTools
homepage=https://github.com/LinearGeoscience/LinearGeoscienceMappingTools
tags=geology,mapping,stereonet,qfield,geoscience,structural
category=Vector
license=GPLv3
icon=icons/icon_main.svg
experimental=False
deprecated=False
hasProcessingProvider=yes
server=False
plugin_dependencies=
changelog=3.4: Map Layout Generator legend overhaul: per-sheet legends (legend
    filtered by map content, field/code scans restricted to each sheet's
    polygon), text-only legend sections for non-symbolised fields (minerals,
    textures, intensity etc. grouped under custom headings with lookup-table
    descriptions), legend config auto-saved in the QGIS project, fixed legend
    layer exclusion for grouped layer trees, template 'code_table' label now
    honoured, sturdier export reporting. Layout manager names are now
    single-line ("Project - Sheet"); pre-3.4 layouts are still replaced on
    regeneration. Legend sections are auto-detected by default: populated
    code columns (Mineral, Texture, SubType...) are discovered, grouped
    into families, matched to their lookup tables by name and used without
    manual setup; an Auto-detect review dialog adds extras (e.g. columns
    without code tables), and the field picker hides empty columns. Code
    descriptions are read from each field's editor widget (Value Relation /
    Value Map dropdowns) so QField projects resolve them without naming
    conventions; case-variant codes (CY/Cy/cy) merge with the lookup's
    canonical casing; the code list renders as a configurable multi-column
    "Code - Description" block below the legend. Lookup sections can be
    split by a discriminator column (e.g. Type) with per-group sub-headers;
    scan fields are picked via checkboxes instead of typed; descriptions
    can come straight from paired layer columns (SubType1 ↔
    SubType1Description) or from description-valued fields in client
    deliverables; lookup column detection no longer falls back to fid.
    Text sections are editable after creation (double-click), the field
    picker is grouped by layer with layer-explicit selections, a new
    "Add Layer Section" builds a code table straight from a layer's code +
    Description columns split by Type, and only one layout template
    (portrait or landscape) is required — the other orientation falls
    back to it. The legend text block is styled to match the legend
    (entries italic in the legend's label font, bold headings) and edits
    to the preview are applied as per-entry corrections on every sheet —
    deletions exclude a code, rewording relabels it, additions append —
    without losing per-sheet filtering. The text block is a single
    single-column label in the legend's italic label font with
    UPPERCASE headings. Map scale and grid spacing are read per sheet
    from the mapsheets layer's 'scale' attribute (set by the Mapsheet
    Generator), with the manual scale combo as fallback. The layout
    panel is rebuilt after plugin reloads instead of re-showing the
    stale dock (June 2026)
    3.3: QGIS plugin repository compliance release: graceful handling of
    missing matplotlib/pandas, documented external dependencies, accurate
    minimum QGIS version (3.40 LTR), vendored libraries now imported without
    modifying sys.path, full GPLv3 license text included (June 2026)
    3.2: Integrated Map Cleaning toolkit (spline tools, clipping panel,
    geometry fixer, splines Processing algorithms) (June 2026)
    3.1: UI refinements and version update (April 2026)
    2.0: Complete rewrite with modern UI, enhanced functionality, and improved stability
    1.0: Initial release

